back in Section two,
we had a look of tools options and discuss some of the settings in the visual basic editor
at the time,
we skipped over the settings related error handling.
In this video,
we'll revisit tool options and discussed those settings.
Let's go back into the Section eight model.
Let's work with the same macro that we worked with in the last tutorial.
So as you can see,
we have error handling in place.
And we did that by using on error go to air handling,
which is a label that we placed at the bottom of the sub procedure.
So if I deliberately introduced an error,
I just put in an erroneous final name.
When I run this up procedure,
my error handling kicks in,
and it overrides Phoebe A's normal error handling.
Now we're going to tools,
options and then into the general tab.
The setting that makes this possible is break on.
Unhand aled errors.
So,
in other words,
this set in means that if you put our handling in place,
V B.
A will not break when it encounters an error and display an error message.
By contrast,
if I switch to break on all errors and then click OK,
even though I've got our handling in place.
When I run the macro,
you'll see that visual basics normal error handling kicks in,
and it does display an error on.
Then it offers me the chance to go into break boat by clicking on debug.
This setting is quite useful for debug in because while they're developing back rows and
thinking about strategies for handling errors,
you very often want to override your own error handling temporarily.
So,
of course,
the trick is to remember to go back into tools options General and then just reinstate
normal behavior.
My reverting to that option break on unhand aled errors.
Breaking class mode,
by the way,
is exactly the same unless you're working with class more jewels.
Class modules are in advanced program in feature.
And what that set it means,
basically,
is that if Phoebe A encounters an error in one of your class models,
it will break.
But at all other times it will respect your attempts to override BB era handling.
So if you're not using class modules,
there's absolutely no difference between these two.
Just before we finish this tutorial,
let's just discuss.
Compile on Demand compilation takes place whenever you run a macro.
And what it means,
basically,
is that your code is compiled or converted into machine language,
which your operating system can then run.
Compiling demand means that only the macro is that you actually run,
and some procedures called by those macros will actually be compiled.
So if you've got a module that contains a dozen sub procedures and you run some procedure
five only some procedure five will be compiled.
All the others won't be compiled unless,
of course,
sub procedure five contains a call to one of those other sub procedures.
So it's the most efficient way of working.
So the only time you'll need to know about this is if someone has switched it off and is
causing you problems,
I'll show you an example of where such a problem might occur.
Let's just switch it off.
Click OK,
and let's say I've got another sub procedure in here,
which isn't finished,
so let's just call it sub unfinished Onda.
Let's just put some code in it,
which will make it not compile,
so I'm gonna do a very simple one them str string And then I'm going to try and set a
different variable called SRT.
So I just made a typo.
He cools whatever.
So this won't compile.
Let's say I know it's not finished,
but I'm actually working on another subroutine.
I'm gonna work on this one.
Eso It's got the area in place.
That's fine.
It won't actually do anything.
So although I'm running in the other macro,
Theoneste finished,
one can't compile,
and that's because it's trying to compile every single some procedure in this module.
So that's just annoying,
basically,
because very often you have got unfinished some procedures in the same model.
So simple solution.
Always keep back option Compiling demand switched on.
And then,
if you will run in this is a procedure.
It runs fine,
and the unfinished procedure doesn't get in the way.
So let's just tidy things up.
Let's just get rid of this.
Ah,
temporary.
Some procedure.
Reinstate the correct name on we're back in business.
The default option Break on on handled errors found in the general tab of the V B option
style off causes V B A.
To respect any error handling that you introduce.
I using on air ago.
Two statements The option break on all errors causes VB eight a handle all heiress and
ignore your attempts to override its default error.
Handling the compiling demand option should be left activated since it allows VB A to
compile only the sub procedure that you actually run as well as any sub procedure it calls
deactivated.
This option causes VB a toe,
always compile every sub procedure in the model.